Getting started
Aspera for high-speed transfer

With IBM Aspera applications and SaaS offerings, you can securely explore file systems and move data at maximum speed, regardless of file size, transfer distance, or network conditions.

Aspera offers a suite of APIs that enable you to integrate Aspera into your own applications, accommodate hybrid-cloud storage systems, and meet transfer needs. You can transfer to and from the cloud or on-premises nodes, and transfer files or streams.

The Documentation section provides an endpoint reference for four Aspera APIs -- Files API, ATS API, Node API, and Watch Folders API -- that are compatible with Aspera on Cloud and the Aspera on Cloud transfer service.
What do I need to use Aspera APIs?

    An Aspera node. If you don't have one, sign up for a free trial of Aspera on Cloud. If you have your own cloud storage, you can use the Aspera on Cloud transfer service (included with your free trial of Aspera on Cloud).

    HTTP request authentication credentials. To access and transfer to and from Aspera on Cloud, you'll need a bearer token. You can use this same bearer token with the ATS API to create transfer service access keys. The Node API can also use Aspera on Cloud bearer tokens and ATS access keys; for more information, see the Node API Reference.

    A goal! See the following information and the Aspera API Tutorials for some ideas of what you can do. We recommend trying a transfer and seeing just how fast Aspera transfers are!

What is a node?

Before delving into the capabilities of Aspera APIs, we need to define “node.” A node is any Aspera server that is configured to use the Node API, which is the API that is used to manage and monitor node activity, including transfers. Aspera nodes include SaaS and self-managed Aspera applications, such as Aspera on Cloud, IBM Aspera High-Speed Transfer Server, and Aspera on Cloud transfer service.
Which Aspera API should I use?

Start and manage transfers

    For node-to-node transfers, use the Node API.
    To transfer to and from Aspera on Cloud by using email packages, use the Files API.
    To automate node-to-cloud uploads, and other node-to-node transfers, use the Watch Folders API

Monitor transfer activity

    To monitor transfers that are started by a Node API request and other activity on a node, such as filelocking, changes to the file system, and permissions, use the Node API.
    To monitor usage of Aspera on Cloud, sorted by workspace and node, use the Files API

Manage storage access and content permissions

    To create and manage access keys, and assign content permissions, use the Node API.
    To manage user access and roles for Aspera on Cloud, use the Files API.
    To create and manage access keys for Aspera on Cloud transfer service, use the ATS API.

Browse file systems

    To browse file systems on Aspera nodes, use the Node API.

What do I do next?

For information on how to get started with Aspera APIs, go to the Aspera Developer Community. Keep your API Explorer window open as well.
